---
layout: "@layouts/Page.astro"
title: "Internationalization (i18n)"
---

# Internationalization (i18n)

<p class="lead">Usability considerations regarding services in multiple languages</p>

This page is a first step in systematization of a topic that includes:

1. Translation of individual pages (this page)
2. Translation of an app with multiple pages
3. Global user preferences

KTH Style has not started working on guidance for points 2 and 3.

## Should be translated?

In general, all pages must be Swedish by default with support for English. Exceptions might be:

- The page is targeted to a specific group where vast majority of people speaks one language
- The page contains information that only makes sense in one language
- The page contains lots of references available only in one language

## Functionality to change language

> [!Note] Add this only if you decided that the page should be translated.

- Follow the instructions in [header tools component](/style/en/components/header__tools) to add it

## Missing or incomplete translation

> [!Note] This applies only if you decided that the page should be translated.

If the translation is incomplete or missing, and you have intentions to add it:

- Use the [Alert component] to inform users about the status of the page
- If the page is empty or very incomplete, make sure to exclude it from search engines. For example by using the `<meta>` tag:

  ```html
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex,nofollow" />
  ```

## Discussions regarding language

> [!Note] These discussions are about pages and services meant to be consumed by _humans_. KTH Style does not have any opinion nor position on machine-readable artifacts like APIs

### URL: path vs query parameter

Most common standards are query parameter `?lang=en` or a path that includes the language code `/en`. Some things to keep in mind:

- Choose path parameter if you don't have options to read query parameters (e.g. you are building a static page)
- When choosing path parameter, put the language code as early as possible

  - `kth.se/en/my-app/my-page` would be ideal but not feasible most of the times
  - `kth.se/my-app/en/my-page` is ok
  - `kth.se/my-app/my-page/en` is the worst option

- If one of the languages is the default, use path without language code for that language.
- When using query parameters, use `l` or `lang` as parameter

### Other questions you should think

- Should URLs be translated?
- Which language to use in the URLs?
- What do we do with non ASCII characters like å, ä, ö?
